Add document for experimental debug info operations (#749)
KhronosGroup/SPIRV-LLVM-Translator: docs/ExperimentalDebugOperations.rst

==============================================================
Experimental support for additional DWARF operations in SPIR-V
==============================================================

.. contents::
   :local:

Overview
========

Debug information in SPIR-V can be represented using `OpenCL.DebugInfo.100`_

> extended instruction set, but unfortunately, this instruction set doesn' support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extended instruction set, but unfortunately, this instruction set doesn't support
```

operations from DWARF5 by extending the table from section
*3.6 Debug Operations* of `OpenCL.DebugInfo.100`_ extended instruction set.

**Important note**: This is not a formal specification and SPIR-V generated with
this experimental feature is not compliant with OpenCL.DebugInfo.100 extended
instruction set and therefore is not portable. This functionality is intended to
provide early access to the feature for review and community feedback. It is not
intended to be used by shipping software products.

.. _OpenCL.DebugInfo.100: https://www.khronos.org/registry/spir-v/specs/unified1/OpenCL.DebugInfo.100.html
.. _DWARF4: http://dwarfstd.org/doc/DWARF4.pdf
.. _DWARF5: http://www.dwarfstd.org/doc/DWARF5.pdf
.. _3.6 Debug Operations: https://www.khronos.org/registry/spir-v/specs/unified1/OpenCL.DebugInfo.100.html#_debug_operations_a_id_operation_a

How to use this functionality
=============================

As this functionality is not documented by any formal SPIR-V extension or SPIR-V
exteneded insturction set specification, it is disabled by default and in order
to enable generation of extra debug information, user need to pass

> `-spirv-with-experimental-debug-operations` command line option to the

Author: ```suggestion
`-spirv-allow-extra-diexpressions` command line option to the
```

|     |                        |                  | unsupported at the moment.                                       |
+-----+------------------------+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 146 |    *DerefSize*         |  1               | Behaves like *Deref* operaiton: it pops the top stack            |
|     |                        |                  | entry and treats it as an address. The popped value must         |
|     |                        |                  | have an integral type. The value retrieved from that             |
|     |                        |                  | address is pushed, and has the generic type. In the              |
|     |                        |                  | *DerefSize* operation, however, the size in bytes                |
|     |                        |                  | of the data retrieved from the dereferenced address is           |
|     |                        |                  | specified by the single operand. This operand is a single        |
|     |                        |                  | word unsigned integral constant whose value may not              |

> |     |                        |                  | be larger than the size of the generic type. The data            |

Reviewer: "generic type" seems to be unspecified
